I'm going to use an actual Python project with folders, modules, etc for this solution.

This notebook is simply detailing the sequence of steps I took to get to my final solution.

You can download the full solution from the resources in this video, or (preferably) directly from theô [github repo](https://github.com/fbaptiste/python-deepdive)

___
### Virtual Environment and pytest

I'm going to useô `pytest`ô for testing in this project, so you should install it into your virtual environment.

Note that if you are not already using virtual environments for your projects I strongly suggest you do so.

Creating a virtual environment is incredibly easy.

1. create a folder for your project
2. create a virtual environment namedô `env`ô (or any name you prefer) by typing this in a console from inside your new folder:

- `python -m venv env`
- note: if you have both Python 2.x and 3.x installed, you'll probably need to specify it asô `python3 -m venv env`
- you should now have a new folder calledô `env`ô inside your project folder.

3. Next you should activate your virtual environment. How you do this will differ on Windows vs Mac/Linux:

- Windows:ô `env\Scripts\activate`
- Linux/Mac:ô `source env/bin/activate`
- Your command prompt should now reflect the activation of the virtual environment something likeô `(env)`ô at the beginning of the prompt.

To deactivate a virtual environment, simply typeô `deactivate`.

Next, we need to install theô `pytest`ô library. We want to installô `pytest`ô in our virtual environment, so do this afterô **activating**ô your virtual environment - make sure your prompt reflects that first.

Then installô `pytest`ô by typing this:ô `pip install -U pytest`

That's it, you now have a virtual environment that hasô `pytest`.

___
### Project Steps

I'm going to provide proper docstrings for every module, class, function, etc. I will use the Google style of docstrings, which is documentedô [here](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#38-comments-and-docstrings)

1. Create this folder hierarchy in the project root:

```
<project root>
....app
........models
........utils
....tests
........unit
```

Note: there is no need to create packages (noô `__init.py__`), we will simply use implicit namespace packages.

2. Create a new module (`validators.py`) inside theô `app/utils`ô package. In that module create a helper functionô `validate_integer`ô that will allow us to validate that a value is an integer, optionally between a min and max (inclusive), and raises aô `TypeError`,ô `ValueError`ô with a custom error message that can be overridden when bound checks fail.

3. Inside theô `tests/unit`ô folder, create a new module calledô `test_validators.py`ô and create the unit tests for theô `validate_integer`ô function.

4. Run the unit tests and make sure all the tests pass.

- to run the unit tests, you can use your IDE's built-in way of doing it, or you can just use the command line, from the root of your project:

`python -m pytest tests`

(this will run all the tests found in that folder - you can specify more specific path to limit your tests further)


5. In theô `models`ô folder, create a new module file calledô `inventory.py`.

6. Implement theô `Resource`ô class

7. Create a new fileô `test_resource.py`ô in theô `tests`ô folder

8. Create unit tests for theô `Resource`ô class and make sure they all pass

9. Createô `CPU`ô class

10. Unit testô `CPU`ô class

11. Createô `Storage`ô Class

12. Unit testô `Storage`ô class

13. Createô `HDD`ô class

14. Unit testô `HDD`ô class

15. Createô `SDD`ô class

16. Unit testô `SDD`ô class