### This course is about

- Python language and built-in types
- The Standard Library
- Becoming an expert Python Developer

- Idiomatic Python **(Zen of Python) | PEP 20**
	- Beautiful is better than ugly.
	- Explicit is better than implicit.
	- Simple is better than complex.
	- Complex is better than complicated.
	- Flat is better than nested.
	- Sparse is better than dense.
	- Readability counts.
	- Special cases aren't special enough to break the rules.
	- Although practicality beats purity.
	- Errors should never pass silently.
	- Unless explicitly silenced.
	- In the face of ambiguity, refuse the temptation to guess.
	- There should be one-- and preferably only one --obvious way to do it.
	- Although that way may not be obvious at first unless you're Dutch.
	- Now is better than never.
	- Although never is often better than *right* now.
	- If the implementation is hard to explain, it's a bad idea.
	- If the implementation is easy to explain, it may be a good idea.
	- Namespaces are one honking great idea -- let's do more of those!

---
#### [[1.0.Quick Refresher]] 

- [[1.1.Python Type Hierarchy]]
- [[1.3.Variable Names]]
- [[1.4.Conditionals]]
- [[1.5.Functions]]
- [[1.6.Loops]]
- [[1.7.Classes]]

---
#### 2.0 Variables and Memory

- What are variables? -> symbols for memory addresses 
- Memory
- Python memory management -> reference counting, garbage collection
- Mutability -> function arguments, shared references
- What is equality of two objects?
- Python memory optimisations -> interning, peephole

---
#### 3.0 Numeric Types 

- integers
- rationals
- floats -> binary representation   exactness   rounding    equality    measures of closeness, approximate equality
- Decimals -> alternative to floats     exactness   precision   rounding
- complex numbers -> *cmath* standard Library

---
#### 4.0 Numeric Types - Booleans

- associated Truth values -> every object has one 
- precedence and short-circuiting
- Boolean operators -> what they really do | using in context of associated truth values
- comparison operators -> identity, value equalities, ordering

---
#### 5.0 Functions 

- higher-order functions
- docstrings and annotations
- Lambdas
- introspection
- functional programming -> map, filter, zip, reducing functions, partial functions 

---
#### 6.0 Functions - Arguments 

- positional arguments 
- keyword-only arguments 
- default values -> caveats
- packing and unpacking
- variable positional arguments 
- variable keyword-only arguments

---
#### 7.0 Functions - Scopes and Closures

- global and local scopes 
- nested scopes 
- closures 
- nested closures

---
#### 8.0 Decorators

- decorators 
- nested decoratore
- parameterised decorators
- stacked decorators
- class decorators
- decorators classes
- applications -> memoization, single dispatch, logging, timing

---
#### 9.0 Tuples as Data Structures

- tuples are not just read-only lists
- data structure 
- packing and unpacking
- named tuples 
- augmenting named tuples 

---
#### 10.0 Modules, Packages and Namespaces

- what are modules?
- what are packages? 
- how do the various import works?
- how to manipulate namespaces using packages 
- zip archives 
- ```__main__```

---