### Identifier names 

- **Case-sensitive**
  - `my_var`, `my_Var`, `ham`, and `Ham` are all different identifiers.
- **Must follow certain rules**
- **Should follow certain conventions**
#### Must Follow Rules

- **Start** with an underscore (`_`) or letter (`a-z`, `A-Z`)
  - **Followed** by any number of underscores (`_`), letters (`a-z`, `A-Z`), or digits (`0-9`)
  - Examples:
    ```python
    var
    my_var
    index1
    index_1
    _var
    __var
    __lt__
    ```
  - Must **not** begin with any digit (`0-9`)

- **Cannot** be reserved words:
  ```markdown
  None    True    False
  and     or      not
  if      else    elif
  for     while   break   continue    pass
  def     lambda  global  nonlocal    return  yield
  del     in      is      assert      class
  try     except  finally raise
  import  from    with    as
  ```

#### Conventions

##### `_my_var`
*^ single underscore*

- This is a **convention** to indicate **internal use** or **private** objects.
- There is no concept of private options in **Python**.
- Objects named this way will not get imported by a statement such as:
  
```python
from module import *
```

##### `__my_var`
*^ double underscore*

- Used to "mangle" class attributes - useful in inheritance chains.

##### `__my_var__`
*^ double ^ underscore*

- Used for system-defined names that have a special meaning to the interpreter.
- Don't invent them, stick to the ones pre-defined by Python!

  ```python
  __init__
  x < y  # interpreted as x.__lt__(y)
  ```

#### Other Naming Conventions from the PEP 8 Style Guide

- **Packages**: short, all-lowercase names. Preferably no underscores.

```markdown
utilities
````

- **Modules**: short, all-lowercase names. Can have underscores.

```markdown
db_utils
dbutils
```

- **Classes**: CapWords (upper camel case) convention.

```markdown
BankAccount
```

- **Functions**: lowercase, words separated by underscores (snake_case).

```markdown
open_account
```

- **Variables**: lowercase, words separated by underscores (snake_case).

```markdown
account_id
```

- **Constants**: all-uppercase, words separated by underscores.

```markdown
MIN_APR
```

[PEP 8 Conventions](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008)

> *A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds* - Emerson
