
```python
s = [1, 2, 3]
len(s)  '''Output: 3'''
```

The `len()` function is a built-in Python function that returns the number of items in an object.

___
### Imported Functions

### `sqrt()`

The `sqrt()` function is imported from the `math` library and returns the square root of a number.

```python
from math import sqrt

sqrt(4)  '''Output: 2.0'''
```

___
### User-Defined Functions

#### Basic Function

You can define your own functions using the `def` keyword.

```python
def func_1():
    '''This is a user-defined function.'''
    print('running func_1')
```

To call a function, you must use parentheses `()`. Simply using the function name will give you a reference to the function object.

```python
func_1  '''Output: <function __main__.func_1>'''
func_1()  '''Output: running func_1'''
```
#### Function with Parameters

Functions can take parameters to process inputs and return outputs.

```python
def func_2(a, b):
    return a + b
```

In Python, you don't need to define the type of parameters. However, you can use **annotations** for documentation purposes.

```python
def func_2(a: int, b: int) -> int:
    return a + b
```

Annotations are purely for documentation and do not affect the behavior of the function.
#### Function Calls & Order

Python allows functions to be defined in any order. Here, `func_4()` is called within `func_3()` without any issues because both functions are defined in the script.

```python
def func_3():
    return func_4()

def func_4():
    return 'running func_4'
```

If you try to call a function before it's defined, you will get an error.

```python
def func_5():
    return func_6()

'''	Uncommenting the following line will give an error:
	func_5()  # NameError: name 'func_6' is not defined'''

def func_6():
    print('running func_6')
```
#### Assigning Functions to Variables

Functions in Python are first-class objects, which means you can assign them to variables and call them using these variables.

```python
my_func = func_4

func_4()  '''Output: running func_4'''
my_func() '''Output: running func_4'''
```
#### [[4.7.0.Lambda Expressions]]

Lambda functions are **inline anonymous functions** that can take any number of arguments but have only one expression.

```python
lambda x: x**2
```

They are useful for small, throwaway functions and are often used in places where function objects are required.

```python
fn1 = lambda x: x**2
fn1(2)  '''Output: 4'''
```

Lambda functions are not meant for large code blocks. They are more suitable for simple operations that can be written in a single line.

___