### Variables are Memory References

Firstly, we can think of memory as series of boxes that exist in our computer that can store and retrieve data. We can also compare it to mail system, for example when you have to write a letter to somebody you have mention the receivers address and that address corresponds to unique box somewhere in the world. It is pretty much the same in *computers memory*

```
    					    |   Memory  | 
        					 ___________
					0x1000  |           |
       		 				| Object 1  |
					0x1001  |  	   	    |
      	   	 				 ___________
					0x1002  |           |
[Memory Addresses]	0x1003  | Object 2  |
					0x1004  |           |
    	    				 ___________
					0x1005  | Object 3  |
	  				  ... 	|           |
           						 ...
```

Here, as we can see we might need more than one memory address to save an object. Some will fit nicely in a single slots but those slots have a finite amount of space.

But as long as we know where the object **starts** in the memory that is good enough. As we can see from above example object 1 and 2 overflows into multiple memory address slots, but it's fine.

This overall structure is called a **Heap**. And storing and retrieving is taken care for us by something called **Python Memory Manager**

```python
my_var_1 = 10
my_var_2 = 'hello'
```

```
		|   Memory  | 
		| _________ |
0x1000  |    10     | ---> my_var_1 (reference) 0x1000
0x1001  |  	   	    |
0x1002  |   hello   |
0x1003  |  		    |
0x1004  |           |
0x1005  |  		    |
 ... 	|           |
			 ...
```

Here, my_var_1 **reference** the object at *0x1000*, similarly my_var_2 **reference** the object at *0x1002*

___
### Finding id for a Variable 

In Python, we can find out the memory address referenced by a variable by using ```id()``` function. It is not something you'll typically be using while code, but we'll use it a bit in order to understand what is happening when the Python program runs especially what is happening to *variables* as we passed them in code.

This function will return a base-10 number. We can convert this base-10 number to hexadecimal, by using the ```hex()``` function.

```python
a = 10 
print(hex(id(a)))
```

___
