
Important Note: A lot of what we discuss with memory management, garbage collection and optimisations, is usually specific to the Python implementation you use.

In this course, we are using **CPython**, the standard (or reference) Python implementation (written in C).

But there are other Python implementation out there. These include:

- **Jython** - written in Java and can import and use any Java class - in fact it even compiles to Java bytecode which can then run in a JVM. However, it is more stable with **Python 2**
- **IronPython** - this one is written in C# and targets .net (and mono) CLR
- **PyPy** - this one is written in RPython (which is itself a statically-typed subset of Python written in C that is specifically designed to written interpreters)
- [and many memory on](https://wiki.python.org/main/PythonImplementations)

Earlier we saw:

```python
a = 10
b = 10
```

These both variables point to the same memory address. So Python automatically created shared reference for us.

```python
a = 500
b = 500 
```

Here, Python doesn't create the shared reference as they both are having different memory address. In this case, although it would be safe for Python to create a shared reference, it does not!

Python is using **Interning** which means reusing objects on-demand. At startup, Python (CPython), **pre-loads** (caches) a global list of integers in the range [-5, 256].

Any time an integer is referenced in that range, Python will use the cached version of that object. They're also known as **Singletons** objects. Which means they can only be instantiate only once.

It is an optimiation strategy - small integers show up often. When we write ```a = 10``` Python just has to point to the existing reference for 10. But if we write ```a = 257``` that's outside of the range.

---
### Code Example

```python
# [-5, 256]
a = 10
b = 10

print(id(a))
print(id(b))

a = 1000
b = 1000 

print(id(a) is id(b))
```

---
