
When we run a statement such as `import fractions`
### What is Python Actually Doing

The first thing to note is that Python is doing the import at **run time**, i.e. while your code is actually running.

This is different from traditional compiled languages such as C where modules are compiled and linked at compile time.

In both cases though, the system needs to know **where** those code files exist.

Python uses a relatively complex system of how to find and load modules. I'm not going to even attempt to describe this in detail, but we'll take a brief look at the main points.

The `sys` module has a few properties that define where Python is going to look for modules (either built-in or standard library as well as our own or 3rd party):

```python
import sys
```
#### Where is Python installed

```python
sys.prefix
```
#### Where are the Compiled C Binaries Located

```python
sys.exec_prefix
```

These two properties are how virtual environments are basically able to work with different environments. Python is installed to a different set of directories, and these prefixes are manipulated to reflect the current Python location.
#### Where does Python look for Imports

```python
sys.path
```

Basically, when we import a module, Python will search for the module in the paths contained in `sys.path`.

If it does not find the module in one of those paths, the import will fail.

So if you ever run into a problem where Python is not able to import a module or package, you should check this first to make sure the path to your module/package is in that list.

At a high level, this is how Python imports a module from file:

- checks the `sys.modules` cache to see if the module has already been imported - if so it simply uses the reference in there, otherwise:
- creates a new module object (`types.ModuleType`)
- loads the source code from a file.
- adds an entry to `sys.modules` with name as key and the newly created
- compiles and executes the source code

One really important thing to note is that when a module is imported, the module code is **executed**.

___
### Example 1

This example shows that when we import a module, the module code is  **executed**.

Furthermore, that module now has its own namespace that can be seen in `__dict__`.

___
### Example 2

In this example, we can see that when we `import` a module, Python first looks for it in `sys.modules`.

To make the point, we put a key/value pair in `sys.modules` ourselves, and then import it.

In fact we put a function in there instead of a module, and import that.

Please **DO NOT** do this, I'm just making the point that `import` will first look in the cache and immediately just return the object if the name is found, basically just as if we had written:

___
### Example 3a

In this example, we look at a simplified view of how Python imports a module.

We use two built-in functions, `compile` and `exec`.

The `compile` function compiles the source (e.g. text) into a code object.

The `exec` function is used to execute a code object. Optionally we can specify what dictionary should be used to store global symbols.

In our case, we are going to want to use our module's `__dict__`.

___
### Example 3b

This is the same as example 3a, except we make our importer into a function and use it to show how we technically should look for a cached version of the module first.

___