Python 3.6 sees a new implementation of the standard `dict` that preserves key ordering (based on the order in which new keys are added into or removed from the dictionary)

Although this is an implementation detail in 3.6, it is supposed to become official in [Python 3.7](https://mail.python.org/pipermail/python-dev/2017-December/151283.html)

So it should be safe to now assume dictionary keys will retain order, and using an `OrderedDict` might no longer be needed for certain cases. I'll come back to `OrderedDict` in a bit...

**Use for Python 3.6 and higher only!**

If you use that ordering feature with standard `dict` objects and then try to run your code in a prior version, things will break :-)

Also means that `keys()` (that iterate from left to right) preserve order as does `values()`. On the other hand `popitem()` will pop the right-most element from the dictionary. Sounds like stack behavior to me - but does not mean you should use it as such - I'm pretty sure that's not going to be as efficient as say using a list!

Let's see some of this (just make sure you're running 3.6 or higher)

```python
from sys import version_info

print(version_info)

```

```python
sys.version_info(major=3, minor=6, micro=2, releaselevel='final', serial=0)

d = {'a': 1, 'b': 2}
print(d.keys(), d.values(), d.items())
```

```python
d['x'] = 3
print(d.keys(), d.values(), d.items())
```

```python
del d['b']
print(d.keys(), d.values(), d.items())
```

```python
d['b'] = 4
print(d.keys(), d.values(), d.items())
```

```python
d['x'] = 100
print(d.keys(), d.values(), d.items())
```

Order maintained...

And if we pop:

```python
d.popitem()
```

We popped the last item.

So now I'm left wondering how to pick a _random_ item from the dictionary? (Not that we could before - it might have looked random when we popped an item but it wasn't)

```python
d = {'x': 1, 'a': 2}
print(d)
```

Notice how just letting Jupyter display `d` changed the display order of the keys? (I'm guessing it's doing something similar to `prettyprint` (or maybe even using it), which changes the displayed key order to be lexicographical.

What about using `update` to update one dict based on another (inserting missing keys, and updating common ones - but especially the insertion bit) - I'm guessing the order is retained with any insertions appearing at the end and ordered according to the dict being merged in. Let's see:

```python
d1 = {'a': 1, 'b': 200}
d2 = {'a': 100, 'd':300, 'c':400}

d1.update(d2)
print(d1)
```

Back to `OrderedDict` for a second:

`OrderedDict` has a few methods that afaik have no equivalent (yet) in standard dicts:

- `move_to_end(key, last=True)` - either move to front or back
- `popitem(last=True)` - that can pop either from front or back of dict
- supports reverse iteration using `reversed()`

Let's take each one of those one by one:

**move to end:**

```python
d = {'a':1, 'b':2, 'c':3}
print('start:', d)
d['a'] = d.pop('a')
print('moved a to end:',d)
```

**move to front:**

That's one not so easy, the only option I can think of is to move all the keys around to re-order. Maybe something like this:

```python
d = {'a':1, 'b':2, 'c':3, 'x':100, 'y':200}
print('start:', d)
d['c'] = d.pop('c')
print('moved c to end:', d)

for i in range(len(d)-1):
    key = next(iter(d.keys()))
    d[key] = d.pop(key)
print('moved c to front:', d)
```

**pop last item:**

That one's trivial - just use `popitem`:

```python
d = {'a':1, 'b':2, 'c':3, 'x':100, 'y':200}
print('start:', d)
d.popitem()
print('pop last item:', d)
```

**pop first item:**

Not too difficult - we just need to identify the _first_ key, and pop it.

```python
d = {'a':1, 'b':2, 'c':3, 'x':100, 'y':200}
print('start:', d)
key = next(iter(d.keys()))
d.pop(key)
print('pop first item:', d)
```

___
