### What is a Sequence 

In Math, a sequence is nothing more than a sequence of **elements**: ```S = x1, x2, x3, ...``` (**countable** sequence)

We can refer to any item in the sequence using its **index** number. For example, ```x2``` is ```S[2]```. So we have a concept of the **first** element, the **second** element, and so on... -> *Positional Ordering*

Python **list** have a concept of **positional order**, but **sets** do not 
- A **list** is a sequence type 
- A **set** is not 

In Python, we start index numbers at **0**, not ```1``` (we'll see why later)

```markdown
s = x0, x1, x2, x3 

S[2] is the **third**  element
```

___
### Built-In Sequence Types 

- ```mutable```   **list**    bytearrays
- ```immutable```   **strings**     **tuples**  **range**   bytes 

```tuples```    In reality a tuple is more than just a sequence type 
```range```     More limited than lists, strings, and tuples 

Additional Standard Types: 
- **collections** package  ```namedtuple```, ```deque```
- **array module**  ```array```

___
### Homogeneous vs Heterogeneous Sequences 

Strings are **homogeneous** sequences, each element is of the **same** type (a character) `python`

Lists are **heterogeneous** sequence, each element may be a **different** type `[1, 10.5, 'python]`

Homogeneous sequence types are usually more efficient (storage wise at least), e.g. prefer using a **string** of characters, rather than a **list** or **tuple** of characters

___
### Iterable Type vs Sequence Type 

What does it mean for an object to be **iterable**?

It is a **container** type of object and we can list out the elements in that object **one by one**. So any sequence type **is** iterable ```l = [1, 2, 3]``` ```for e in l```

But an iterable **is not necessarily** a sequence type, iterables are **more general** 

```python
s = {1, 2, 3}
for e in s:
    print(e)
```

But **indexing** ```s[0]``` is not available for a **set**.

___
### Standard Sequence Methods

Built-in sequence types, both **mutable** and **immutable**, support the following methods, 

- ```x in s```, s1 + s2 **concatenation**
- `s * n (or n * s)` (n an integer) **repetition** 
- `len(s)`
- `min(s)` or `max(s)` (if an **ordering** between elements of `s` is defined)

This is not the same as the ordering (position) of elements inside the container, this is the ability to compare pairwise elements using an order comparison (e.g. `<`, `<=`, etc).

- `s.index(x)` index of first occurrence of `x` in `s`
- `s.index(x, i)` index of first occurrence of `x` in `s` at or after index `i`
- `s.index(x, i, j)` index of first occurrence of `x` in `s` at or after index `i` and before index `j` 

- s[i] the element at index `i`
- s[i:j] the slice from index `i`, to (but not including) `j`
- s[i:j:k] extended slice from index `i`, to (but not including) `j`, in steps of `k`

Note that slices will return in the **same** container type 

- `range` objects are more **restrictive**: no concatenation / repetition 
- `min`, `max`, `in`, `not it` not as efficient

___
### Hashing 

Immutable sequence types may support hashing `hash(s)`, but not if they contain mutable types! 

___
### Review: Beware of Concatenations

```python
x = [1, 2]
a = x + x
print(a)

x = 'python'
a = x + x 
print(a)

x = [ [0, 0] ]
a = x + x 
print(a)
```

Here, `[ [0, 0] ]` will have the same memory address regardless 

```python
print(id(x[0]))
print(id(a[0]))
print(id(a[1]))
```

```python
print(a[0] is x[0])
print(a[1] is x[0])
```

```python
a[0][0] = 100 
print(a)
```

___
### Review: Beware of Repetitions

```python
a = [1, 2] * 2 
print(a)

a = 'python' * 2 
print(a)

a = [ [0, 0] ] * 2
print(a)
```

```python
a[0][0] = 100 
print(a)
```

The same happens here, but because strings are immutable it's quite safe ```a = ['python'] * 2```. Here, we can't mutate the **string**

___
### Code Example 

Sequence types have the general concept of a first element, a second element, and so on. Basically an ordering of the sequence items using the natural numbers. In Python (and many other languages) the starting index is set to `0`, not `1`.

So, the first item has an index of `0`; the second item has an index `of 1`, and so on.

Python has built-in mutable and immutable sequence types.

Strings and tuples are immutable - we can access but not modify the **content** of the **sequence**:

```python
t = (1, 2, 3)

print(t[0])
```

```markdown
t[0] = 100

TypeError                                 Traceback (most recent call last)
<ipython-input-3-155b9e8fb284> in <module>()
----> 1 t[0] = 100

TypeError: 'tuple' object does not support item assignment
```

But of course, if the sequence contains mutable objects, then although we cannot modify the sequence of elements (cannot replace, delete, or insert elements), we certainly **can** change the contents of the mutable objects:

```python
t = ( [1, 2], 3, 4)
```

`t` is immutable, but its first element is a mutable object:

```python
t[0][0] = 100

print(t)
```
#### Iterables

An **iterable** is just something that can be iterated over, for example using a `for` loop:

```python
t = (10, 'a', 1+3j)
s = {10, 'a', 1+3j}

for c in t:
    print(c)

for c in s:
    print(c)
```

Note how we could iterate over both the tuple and the set. Iterating the tuple preserved the **order** of the elements in the tuple, but not for the set. Sets do not have an ordering of elements - they are iterable, but not sequences.

Most sequence types support the `in` and `not in` operations. Ranges do too, but not quite as efficiently as lists, tuples, strings, etc.

```python
print('a' in ['a', 'b', 100])

print(100 in range(200))
```
#### Min, Max, and Length

Sequences also generally support the `len` method to obtain the number of items in the collection. Some iterables may also support that method.

```python
len('python'), len([1, 2, 3]), len({10, 20, 30}), len({'a': 1, 'b': 2})
```

Sequences (and even some iterables) may support `max` and `min` as long as the data types in the collection can be **ordered** in some sense (`<` or `>`).

```python
a = [100, 300, 200]
print(min(a), max(a))

s = 'python'
print(min(s), max(s))

s = {'p', 'y', 't', 'h', 'o', 'n'}
print(min(s), max(s))
```

But if the elements do not have an ordering defined:

```markdown
a = [1+1j, 2+2j, 3+3j]
min(a)

TypeError                                 Traceback (most recent call last)
<ipython-input-17-b0cd79e53377> in <module>()
      1 a = [1+1j, 2+2j, 3+3j]
----> 2 min(a)

TypeError: '<' not supported between instances of 'complex' and 'complex'
```

`min` and `max` will work for heterogeneous types as long as the elements are pairwise comparable (`<` or `>` is defined).

For example:

```python
from decimal import Decimal

t = 10, 20.5, Decimal('30.5')
print(min(t), max(t))
```

```markdown
t = ['a', 10, 1000]
min(t)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
TypeError                                 Traceback (most recent call last)
<ipython-input-21-983eac063887> in <module>()
      1 t = ['a', 10, 1000]
----> 2 min(t)

TypeError: '<' not supported between instances of 'int' and 'str'
```

Even `range` objects support `min` and `max`:

```python
r = range(10, 200)
min(r), max(r)
```
#### Concatenation

We can **concatenate** sequences using the `+` operator:

```python
print([1, 2, 3] + [4, 5, 6])

print((1, 2, 3) + (4, 5, 6))
```

Note that the type of the concatenated result is the same as the type of the sequences being concatenated, so concatenating sequences of varying types will not work:

```python
# (1, 2, 3) + [4, 5, 6]
```

TypeError: can only concatenate tuple (not "list") to tuple

```python
# 'abc' + ['d', 'e', 'f']
```

TypeError: must be str, not list

Note: if you want to concatenate varying types you'll have to transform them into a common type first:

```python
print((1, 2, 3) + tuple([4, 5, 6]))

print(tuple('abc') + ('d', 'e', 'f'))

print(''.join(tuple('abc') + ('d', 'e', 'f')))
```
#### Repetition

Most sequence types also support **repetition**, which is essentially concatenating the same sequence an integer number of times:

```python
'abc' * 5
```

```python
[1, 2, 3] * 5
```

We'll come back to some caveats of concatenation and repetition in a bit.
#### Finding things in Sequences

We can find the index of the occurrence of an element in a sequence:

```python
s = "gnu's not unix"

print(s.index('n'))

print(s.index('n', 1), s.index('n', 2), s.index('n', 8))
```

An exception is raised if the element is not found, so you'll want to catch it if you don't want your app to crash:

```python
s.index('n', 13)
```

ValueError: substring not found

```python
try:
    idx = s.index('n', 13)
except ValueError:
    print('not found')
```

Note that these methods of finding objects in sequences do not assume that the objects in the sequence are ordered in any way. These are searches that iterate over the sequence until they find (or not) the requested element.

If you have a sorted sequence, then other search techniques are available - such as binary searches. I'll cover some of these topics in the extras section of this course.
#### Slicing

We'll come back to slicing in a later lecture, but sequence types generally support slicing, even ranges (as of Python 3.2). Just like concatenation, slices will return the same type as the sequence being sliced:

```python
s = 'python'
l = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]

s[0:3], s[4:6]

('pyt', 'on')

l[0:3], l[4:6]
```

It's ok to extend ranges past the bounds of the sequence:

```python
s[4:1000]
```

If your first argument in the slice is `0`, you can even omit it. Omitting the second argument means it will include all the remaining elements:

```python
s[0:3], s[:3]

s[3:1000], s[3:], s[:]
```

We can even have extended slicing, which provides a start, stop and step:

```python
s, s[0:5], s[0:5:2]
```

```python
s, s[::2]
```

Technically we can also use negative values in slices, including extended slices (more on that later):

```python
s, s[-3:-1], s[::-1]
```

```python
r = range(11)  # numbers from 0 to 10 (inclusive)

print(r)
print(list(r))
print(r[:5])
print(list(r[:5]))
```

As you can see, slicing a range returns a range object as well, as expected.
#### Hashing

Immutable sequences generally support a `hash` method that we'll discuss in detail in the section on mapping types:

```python
l = (1, 2, 3)
hash(l)
```

```python
s = '123'
hash(s)
```

```python
r = range(10)
hash(r)
```

But mutable sequences (and mutable types in general) do not:

```python
l = [1, 2, 3]
# hash(l)
```

TypeError: unhashable type: 'list'

Note also that a hashable sequence is no longer hashable if one (or more) of its elements are not hashable:

```python
t = (1, 2, [10, 20])
# hash(t)
```

TypeError: unhashable type: 'list'

But this would work:

```python
t = ('python', (1, 2, 3))
hash(t)
```

In general, immutable types are likely hashable, while immutable types are not. So numbers, strings, tuples, etc are hashable, but lists and sets are not:

```python
from decimal import Decimal
d = Decimal(10.5)
hash(d)
```

Sets are not hashable:

```python
s = {1, 2, 3}
# hash(s)
```

TypeError: unhashable type: 'set'

But frozensets, an immutable variant of the set, are:

```python
s = frozenset({1, 2, 3})
hash(s)
```
#### Caveats with Concatenation and Repetition

```python
x = [2000]
id(x[0])

l = x + x
id(l[0]), id(l[1])
```

As expected, the objects in `l[0]` and `l[1]` are the same.

Could also use:

```python
l[0] is l[1]
```

This is not a big deal if the objects being concatenated are immutable. But if they are mutable:

```python
x = [ [0, 0] ]
l = x + x

print(l[0] is l[1])
```

And then we have the following:

```python
l[0][0] = 100

print(l[0])
print(l)
```

Notice how changing the 1st item of the 1st element also changed the 1st item of the second element.

While this seems fairly obvious when concatenating using the `+` operator as we have just done, the same happens with repetition and may not seem so obvious:

```python
x = [ [0, 0] ]

m = x * 3

print(m)

m[0][0] = 100

print(m)
```

And in fact, even `x` changed:

```python
x
```

If you want these repeated objects to be different, you'll have to copy them somehow. A simple list comprehension would work well here:

```python
x = [ [0, 0] ]
m = [e.copy() for e in x*3]

print(m)

m[0][0] = 100

print(m)

print(x)
```

___


