We've already used the `zip` function quite a bit.

It zips up two iterables and yields tuples containing elements from all iterables in "parallel". It is also lazy, and it will stop once the first iterable is exhausted.

Let's look at a simple example:

```python
l1 = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
l2 = [1, 2, 3, 4]
l3 = [1, 2, 3]
```

```python
list(zip(l1, l2, l3))
```

As you can see, the shortest iterable we provided to the `zip` function had a length of 3 (so it reached the end of iteration first), and our output therefore only had 3 tuples in it.

Of course, this works with iterators and generators too:

```python
def integers(n):
    for i in range(n):
        yield i
        
def squares(n):
    for i in range(n):
        yield i**2
        
def cubes(n):
    for i in range(n):
        yield i**3
```

```python
iter1 = integers(6)
iter2 = squares(5)
iter3 = cubes(4)
```

```python
list(zip(iter1, iter2, iter3))
```

Sometimes we want to zip up iterables but completely iterate all the iterables, and not stop at the shortest. Of course, the problem is what to do with iterables that have been fully iterated before the longest one has.

Simple, we just need to provide a default "filler" value.

And that's how the `zip_longest` function from `itertools` works:

```python
from itertools import zip_longest
```

```python
help(zip_longest)
```

As you can see, we can only specify a single default value, this means that the default will be used for any provided iterable once it has been fully iterated.

As expected, `zip_longest` yields its values - it is lazy.

Let's see an example:

```python
l1 = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
l2 = [1, 2, 3, 4]
l3 = [1, 2, 3]
```

Of course, since this zips over the longest iterable, beware of using an infinite iterable!

You don't have to worry about this with the normal `zip` function as long as at least one of the iterables is finite:

```python
def squares():
    i = 0
    while True:
        yield i ** 2
        i += 1

def cubes():
    i = 0
    while True:
        yield i ** 3
        i += 1
```

Obviously, `squares` produce an infinite iterator. But we can still zip it with a finite iterable:

```python
iter1 = squares()
iter2 = cubes()
list(zip(range(10), iter1, iter2))
```

Don't try the same thing with `zip_longest`!

___
