Let's look at a simple generator function:

```python
def gen(s):
    for c in s:
        yield c
```

We create a generator object by calling the generator function:

```python
g = gen('abc')
```

At this point the generator object is **created**, but we have not started running it. To do so, we call `next()`, which then starts running the function body until the first `yield` is encountered:

```python
next(g)
```

Now the generator is **suspended**, waiting for us to call next again:

```python
next(g)
```

Every time we call `next`, the generator function runs or is running until the next yield is encountered, or no more results are yielded and the function returns:

```python
next(g)
```

```markdown
next(g)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
StopIteration                             Traceback (most recent call last)
<ipython-input-39-5f315c5de15b> in <module>()
----> 1 next(g)

StopIteration:
```

Once we exhaust the generator, we get a `StopIteration` exception, and we can think of the generator as being **closed**.

As we can see, a generator can be in one of four states:

- created
- running
- suspended
- closed

We can actually request the state of a generator programmatically by using the `inspect` module's `getgeneratorstate()` function:

```python
from inspect import getgeneratorstate
```

```python
g = gen('abc')
```

```python
getgeneratorstate(g)
```

We can start running the generator by calling `next`:

```python
next(g)
```

And the state is now:

```python
getgeneratorstate(g)
```

Once we exhaust the generator:

```markdown
next(g), next(g), next(g)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
StopIteration                             Traceback (most recent call last)
<ipython-input-50-1e5090e0cf7c> in <module>()
----> 1 next(g), next(g), next(g)

StopIteration:
```

The generator is now in a closed state:

```python
getgeneratorstate(g)
```

Now we haven't seen the running state - to do that we just need to print the state from inside the generator - but to do that we need to have a reference to the generator object itself. This is not that easy to do, so I'm going to cheat and assume that the generator object will be referenced by a global variable `global_gen`:

```python
def gen(s):
    for c in s:
        print(getgeneratorstate(global_gen))
        yield c
```

```python
global_gen = gen('abc')
```

```python
next(global_gen)
```

So a generator can be in these four very distinct states.

When the generator is created, it is not in a running or suspended state - it is simply in a **created** state.

We have to kick-off, or prime, the generator by calling `next` on it.

After the generator has yielded a value, it it is in **suspended** state.

Finally, once the generator **returns** (not yields), i.e. the StopIteration is raised, the generator is **closed**.

Finally, it is really important to understand that when a `yield` is encountered, the generator is suspended **exactly** at that point, but not before it has evaluated the expression to the right of the yield statement so it can produce that value in the return value of the `next()` function.

To see this, let's write a simple function and a generator function as follows:

```python
def square(i):
    print(f'squaring {i}')
    return i ** 2
```

```python
def squares(n):
    for i in range(n):
        yield square(i)
        print ('right after yield')
```

```python
sq = squares(5)
```

```python
next(sq)
```

As you can see `square(i)` was evaluated, **then** the value was yielded, and the generator was suspended exactly at the point the `yield` statement was encountered:

```python
next(sq)
```

As you can see, only now does the `right-after yield` string get printed from our generator.

___




