We'll come back to these dictionary views in a lot more detail once we have studied sets because they are very related.

For now, let's just briefly look at the basics of these views.

Views are special objects that support set behavior and also support iteration over the keys, values, and key/value pairs (items) in a dictionary.

A quick look at some common set operations:

```python
s1 = {1, 2, 3}
s2 = {2, 3, 4}
```

Unions:

```python
s1 | s2
```

Intersections:

```python
s1 & s2
```

Differences:

```python
s1 - s2
```

```python
s2 - s1
```

Now let's look at these views:

```python
d1 = {'a': 1, 'b': 2, 'c': 3} 
d2 = {'c': 30, 'd': 4, 'e': 5}
```

We can iterate over the keys of a dictionary using the dictionary's iterator directly, or via the `keys` view:

```python
for key in d1:
    print(key)
```

```python
for key in d1.keys(): 
	print(key)
```

We can iterate over just the values of the dictionary:

```python
for value in d1.values():
    print(value)
```

and over the items, as tuples, of the dictionary:

```python
for item in d1.items():
    print(item)
```

We can also unpack the tuples directly while iterating:

```python
for k, v in d1.items():
    print(k, v)
```

These views are iterables, not just iterators:

```python
keys = d1.keys()
```

```python
list(keys)
```

```python
list(keys)
```

As you can see we can iterate over and over on the same view.

The order in which keys, values, and items are returned during iteration matches - as long as the dictionary has not changed in between.

So for example, the following expression will always evaluate to true:

```python
list(d1.items()) == list(zip(d1.keys(), d1.values()))
```

Views are dynamic, in the sense that if something changes in the dictionary, the views immediately reflect the change - that's because the views do not themselves contain data, they simply have extra bits of functionality that use the dictionary as the source of truth.

```python
keys
```

```python
d1['z'] = 10
```

```python
keys
```

```python
del d1['z']
```

```python
keys
```

Now, the interesting thing is that some of these views also exhibit set behaviors.

```python
print(d1)
print(d2)
```

We can find all the keys that are in both `d1` and `d2`:

```python
print(type(d1.keys()), d1.keys())
print(type(d2.keys()), d2.keys())
union = d1.keys() | d2.keys()
print(type(union), union)
```

One thing to watch out for here: once we start performing set-like operations, the result is a true `set`, and although ordering in the views is guaranteed, ordering in the resulting sets is **not** as you can see from the example above!

We can also find the keys that are in both `d1` and `d2`:

```python
d1.keys() & d2.keys()
```

We can also find the keys that are only in `d1` but not in `d2`:

```python
d1.keys() - d2.keys()
```

The same works with items as well:

```python
d1.items() | d2.items()
```

You'll notice that `('c', 3)` and `('c', 30)` are distinct elements, hence they show up as individual elements in the result.

Values on the other hand are more problematic. Keys in a dictionary must be hashable, and set elements must also be hashable, so it's not a problem creating a set of keys for example. But what about values? These need not be unique or hashable. And items for that matter? The first element of the tuple must be hashable since it's the key, but the value?

```python
d3 = {'a': [1, 2], 'b': [3, 4]}
d4 = {'b': [30, 40], 'c': [5, 6]}
```

```python
d3.values()
```

Can we perform some set operations on the values?

```markdown
d3.values() | d4.values()

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
TypeError                                 Traceback (most recent call last)
<ipython-input-28-9366ac502855> in <module>
----> 1 d3.values() | d4.values()

TypeError: unsupported operand type(s) for |: 'dict_values' and 'dict_values'
```

The answer is no, the `values` view does not behave like a set - it can't because there is no guarantee the values are unique and hashable.

What's interesting, though, is that `items` do have unique values (since the keys are unique), but the values may or may not be hashable, as in the example of `d3` and `d4`:

```python
print(d3)
print(d4)
```

```markdown
d3.items() | d4.items()

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
TypeError                                 Traceback (most recent call last)
<ipython-input-30-1b688db1e1d4> in <module>
----> 1 d3.items() | d4.items()

TypeError: unhashable type: 'list'
```

As you can see, `items`, in this case also do not exhibit set-like capabilities.

But that's not always the case. Let's go back to our first example:

```python
print(d1)
print(d2)
```

```python
d1.items() | d2.items()
```

Aha! In this case, `items` **does** behave like a set - that's because the values are all hashable!

That's all I'm going to cover for now on dictionary views, we'll come back to them in greater detail in the context of sets.
#### Example 1

Let's take a look at a practical example of using these views for something other than plain iteration:

Let's say we have two dictionaries, and we want to create a new dictionary that contains all the items whose keys are in both dictionaries. We want the value in the new dictionary to be a tuple containing all the values from both dictionaries:

```python
d1 = {'a': 1, 'b': 2, 'c': 3}
d2 = {'b': 2, 'c': 30, 'd': 4}
```

```python
k1 = d1.keys()
k2 = d2.keys()
k1 & k2
```

So we have now identified the common keys, all that's left to do is build a dictionary from those keys and the corresponding values.

We can use a simple loop to do this:

```python
new_dict = {}
for key in d1.keys() & d2.keys():
    new_dict[key] = (d1[key], d2[key])
print(new_dict)
```

But, a dictionary comprehension would be a better approach here:

```python
new_dict = {key: (d1[key], d2[key]) for key in d1.keys() & d2.keys()}
print(new_dict)
```
#### Example 2

Let's tweak this a bit and generate a new dictionary, again containing just the common keys, but whose value is either the common value, or if the underlying dictionaries have different values for the same key, choose the values from the second dictionary, discarding the values from the first.

The approach is going to be almost identical to the previous example.

Let's just see which value we want to use for both cases (same values, different values):

- same values: pick a value from `d1` or `d2` (since values are the same it does not matter)
- different values: pick a value from `d2`

As you can see, in both cases we just need to pick the value in `d2`.

```python
d1 = {'a': 1, 'b': 2, 'c': 3}
d2 = {'b': 2, 'c': 30, 'd': 4}
new_dict = {key: d2[key] for key in d1.keys() & d2.keys()}
print(new_dict)
```
#### Example 3

For this example, suppose we have two dictionaries, and we want to identify items whose keys are **not** common to both dictionaries:

```python
d1 = {'a': 1, 'b': 2, 'c': 3, 'd': 4}
d2 = {'a': 10, 'b': 20, 'c': 30, 'e': 5}
```

As you can see from visual inspection, we want to end up with a dictionary that looks like this:

```python
{'d': 4, 'e': 5}
```

First, let's consider how we would identify the non-common keys.

Start with the union of the keys - this identifies all unique keys in both dictionaries:

```python
union = d1.keys() | d2.keys()
print(union)
```

Next, we look at the intersection of the keys - this identifies all keys common to both dictionaries:

```python
intersection = d1.keys() & d2.keys()
print(intersection)
```

Finally, we can remove the keys in the intersection from the keys in the union:

```python
keys = union - intersection
print(keys)
```

As you can see we now have the keys we are interested in. All that's left is to pick up the values as well.

(We'll cover this later in the section on sets, but there's a quicker way to get this, using something called a symmetric difference.)

First note that given a key, it will be present in either `d1` or `d2`, but not both. So to get the value for the key we need to look at both dictionaries and pick the value from whichever dictionary has the key:

```python
value = d1.get('e')
print(value)
```

```python
value = d2.get('e')
print(value)
```

So, we can combine these two expressions with an or to get the non-`None` value (one of them always will be `None`):

```python
d1.get('d') or d2.get('d')
```

```python
d1.get('e') or d2.get('e')
```

So now we need to use this to gather up the values for our keys and create a result dictionary:

We could do it using a standard loop:

```python
d1 = {'a': 1, 'b': 2, 'c': 3, 'd': 4}
d2 = {'a': 10, 'b': 20, 'c': 30, 'e': 5}
union = d1.keys() | d2.keys()
intersection = d1.keys() & d2.keys()
keys = union - intersection

result = {}
for key in keys:
    result[key] = d1.get(key) or d2.get(key)
print(result)
```

Or, better yet, we could use a dictionary comprehension:

```python
result = {key: d1.get(key) or d2.get(key) for key in keys}
print(result)
```

Just for completeness, and again, we'll cover this in detail later, we can use the symmetric difference operator for sets (`^`) which does in one operation the same thing we did with the union, intersection, and difference operators, making this even more concise:

```python
d1 = {'a': 1, 'b': 2, 'c': 3, 'd': 4}
d2 = {'a': 10, 'b': 20, 'c': 30, 'e': 5}
result = {key: d1.get(key) or d2.get(key)
         for key in d1.keys() ^ d2.keys()}
print(result)
```

___













