Just like dictionaries, there is a variety of ways to create sets.

First, we have set literals:

```python
s = {'a', 100, (1,2)}
```

```python
type(s)
```

To create an empty set we cannot use `{}` since that would create an empty dictionary:

```python
d = {}
type(d)
```

Instead, we have to use the `set()` function:

```python
s = set()
type(s)
```

This brings up the second way we can create sets. We can use the `set()` function and pass it an iterable:

```python
s = set([1, 2, 3])
```

```python
s
```

or even:

```python
s = set(range(10))
```

```python
s
```

Of course, we are restricted to an iterable of hashable elements only.

So this would not work:

```markdown
s = set([[1,2], [3,4]])

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
TypeError                                 Traceback (most recent call last)
<ipython-input-10-575d528523b5> in <module>
----> 1 s = set([[1,2], [3,4]])

TypeError: unhashable type: 'list'
```

What might surprise you is this:

```python
d = {'a': 1, 'b': 2}
s = set(d)
```

See? No exception!

But consider what happens when we iterate a dictionary:

```python
for e in d:
    print(e)
```

We just got the keys back! All dictionary keys are hashable, and therefore we can always create a set from a dictionary, but it will just contain the keys:

```python
s
```

Next, we can use a **set comprehension** to create a set. It looks and works almost the same as dictionary comprehension - but a set, unlike a dictionary, has no associated values. Here's an example:

```python
s = {c for c in 'python'}
```

```python
s
```

Of course, we do not need to use comprehension here. Since strings are iterables of characters (which are hashable), we can create a set from the characters in a string as follows:

```python
s = set('python')
s
```

Just like we have iterable unpacking and dictionary unpacking, we also have set unpacking:

```python
s1 = {'a', 'b', 'c'}
s2 = {10, 20, 30}
```

To combine both elements of these sets, we cannot do this:

```python
s = {s1, s2}

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
TypeError                                 Traceback (most recent call last)
<ipython-input-18-35f81208adfa> in <module>
----> 1 s = {s1, s2}

TypeError: unhashable type: 'set'
```

This would be a set of sets - and sets are not hashable anyway (we could use a frozenset, but more about those later).

What we want is to unpack the elements of the sets into something else.

We could create a set containing all these elements:

```python
s = {*s1, *s2}
```

```python
s
```

What's interesting about the unpacking though, is that we are not restricted to just creating another set:

```python
l = [*s1, *s2]
```

```python
l
```

or even to pass as arguments to a function - with a big caveat!

```python
def my_func(a, b, c):
    print(a, b, c)
```

```python
args = {20, 10, 30}
```

We cannot just pass the set directly to `my_func` because it expects three arguments, but we can unpack the set before we pass it:

```python
my_func(*args)
```

Notice the order of the arguments! As we know, the order of elements in a set is considered random (it's not of course, but for all practical purposes it might as well be).

In some cases, however, it might not matter. Consider this function:

```python
def averager(*args):
    total = 0
    for arg in args:
        total += arg
    return total / len(args)
```

```python
averager(10, 20, 30)
```

___
### Distinct Elements

We know that set elements must be distinct - so how do all these methods we have seen for creating sets behave when we have repeated elements?

Let's take a look at each, one at a time:

```python
s = {'a', 'b', 'c', 'a', 'b', 'c'}
s
```

As you can see, Python just discards any repeated element.

The same happens with the `set()` function:

```python
s = set('baabaa')
s
```

The same with comprehension:

```python
s = {c for c in 'moomoo'}
s
```

Now unpacking is a little different. If we unpack into a set, then sure, elements will remain distinct:

```python
s1 = {10, 20, 30}
s2 = {20, 30, 40}
s = {*s1, *s2}
s
```

But if we unpack into a tuple for example:

```python
t = (*s1, *s2)
```

```python
t
```

As you can see, we get repeated elements.

___
### Application

So, one really interesting application of sets and the fact that their elements are unique, is finding unique elements from collections whose elements might not be.

Consider this problem. We have a string, and we want to assign a score to the string based on how many distinct characters of the alphabet it uses.

(I'm considering an alphabet here to be 'a' - 'z'). So the total length of that alphabet is 26, and we can score a string this way:

```python
s = 'abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz'
distinct = set(s)
score = len(s) / 26
score
```

Let's write a function to do this, (and remove any characters that are not part of our 'alphabet'):

```python
def scorer(s):
    alphabet = set('abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz')
    s = s.lower()
    distinct = set(s)
    # we want to only count characters that are in our alphabet
    effective = distinct & alphabet
    return len(effective) / len(alphabet)
```

```python
scorer(s)
```

```python
scorer('baa baa')
```

```python
2 / 26
```

```python
scorer('baa baa baa!!! 123')
```

```python
scorer('the quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog')
```

Often we are presented with problems where we have a list, or other collection, and we just want to find the unique elements of that list. As long as the elements are all hashable, we can easily do this using sets!

___
