You are given three JSON files, representing a default set of settings, and environment-specific settings. The files are included in the downloads and are named:

- `common.json`
- `dev.json`
- `prod.json`

Your goal is to write a function that has a single argument, the environment name, and returns the "combined" dictionary that merges the two dictionaries together, with the environment-specific settings overriding any common settings already defined.

For simplicity, assume that the argument values are going to be the same as the file names, without the `.json` extension. So for example, `dev` or `prod`.

The wrinkle: We don't want to duplicate data for the "merged" dictionary - use `ChainMap` to implement this instead.

The first thing we'll need to do is write a function to load the JSON files:

```python
import json

def load_settings(env):
    # assume file name is <env>.json
    with open(f'{env}.json') as f:
        settings = json.load(f)
    return settings
```

```python
from pprint import pprint
```

```python
pprint(load_settings('common'))
```

```python
pprint(load_settings('dev'))
```

```python
pprint(load_settings('prod'))
```

OK, so our function seems to work fine. Now time to "combine" our settings - let's try this simple approach first.

Spoiler alert: this won't work as expected!

```python
from collections import ChainMap

def settings(env):
    # combine common.json and <env>.json, with env settings taking precedence
    common_settings = load_settings('common')
    env_settings = load_settings(env)
    return ChainMap(env_settings, common_settings)
```

```python
dev = settings('dev')
```

```python
for k, v in dev.items():
    print(k, ':', v)
```

**What happened to the values that were in `common`??**

For example, we don't see the `database` `port`??

This does not work as intended because of sub-dictionaries - as you can see the dictionary for `database` for example is the one from `dev`, and not a "combined" dictionary.

`ChainMap` is not recursive, so this is not going to work for us as it stands.

We need to use a recursive approach to handle any amount of nesting.

Let's think how we would do this for a single level.

When we chain two dictionaries together, we will have to replace any sub-dictionary with a chain of the sub-dictionaries further down the line - fortunately our line is two since we only deal with `common` and either `dev` or `prod` (or whatever environment names we want to support).

So if a key in `dev` (for example), has a dictionary value, we need to chain that sub-dictionary too. And if any of the keys in the chained subdictionary contains nested dictionaries, we need to chain those too.

```python
def chain_recursive(d1, d2):
    chain = ChainMap(d1, d2)
    for k, v in d1.items():
        if isinstance(v, dict) and k in d2:
            chain[k] = chain_recursive(d1[k], d2[k])
    return chain
```

```python
d1 = load_settings('common')
d2 = load_settings('dev')
```

```python
dev = chain_recursive(d2, d1)
```

```python
pprint(dev)
```

This means that we can lookup the log level for example, which we know should be `trace` for our development environment:

```python
dev['logs']['level']
```

If instead we load up our production environment:

```python
d3 = load_settings('prod') 
prod = chain_recursive(d3, d1)
```

```python
prod['logs']['level']
```

and the database port, from the common settings:

```python
prod['database']['port']
```

but, we have the override for the user:

```python
prod['database']['user']
```

So now, let's package this up in a neat function for our users:

```python
def settings(env):
    common_settings = load_settings('common')
    env_settings = load_settings(env)
    return chain_recursive(env_settings, common_settings)
```

```python
prod = settings('prod')
```

```python
prod['database']['user']
```

```python
dev = settings('dev')
dev['logs']['level']
```

Let's also check some deeper nested dictionaries:

```python
prod['data']['numerics']['type']
```

```python
dev['data']['numerics']['type']
```

```python
dev['data']['operators']
```
  
So this seems to work just fine. You may want to further refine this to merge list type values as well - for example, `key1: [1, 2, 3]` in `common` and `key2: [3, 4, 5]` in `dev` might result in `key1: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`. This is a rarer requirement, but do note that the solution I present here will simply replace the entire list with what is in the `dev` file, not merge the two lists.

___
